# Healthcare-Capstone:
Evanston Hospital is a comprehensive acute-care facility in Illinois, US. The hospital offers a wide range of services and surgical specialities, in addition to having high-end lab capabilities. Despite spending a considerable amount of resources on improving its services, the hospital’s CMS rating has remained at 3 for the past 5 years, and this has led to a steady decline in revenue for the hospital. For hospitals like Evanston, these ratings directly influence the choice made by consumers who are looking for a healthcare provider and would, therefore, have a significant impact on the hospitals’ revenues. As a consulting company hired by Evanston, our task is to identify possible root causes for the hospital getting such an average rating and recommend measures to mitigate this problem.
The entire problem statement has been divided into 4 main parts.
## Part I - Structured Problem Solving (Issue Tree Framework):
Initially, Evanston Hospital came up to you to discuss the reasons why its profits were not increasing despite investing for improving its services. Here’s a summary of the conversation that happened between your team and the team from Evanston Hospital.
It was found that the Evanston Hospital’s net profit has had a steady decline of around 7% for the last 6 quarters.
The team mentioned that the number of customers and insurance companies opting for the hospital's services had declined by around 5% every year for the last 5 years. 
The overall number of customers opting for private healthcare had also increased in that region, leading the team at Evanston to believe that a lot of them prefer other hospitals in the city as their healthcare providers.
The hospital had conducted a survey 10 months back to identify the reasons for this drop in the number of customers and identified that because of their average CMS rating (which was 3 at that time) most people, as well as insurance providers, are preferring the other better-rated hospitals.
To increase the rating, the hospital’s upper management decided to invest in several new types of equipment, a highly trained staff, and even set up a new lab for thorough testing of high-risk obstetrics and also a state of the art Infant Special Care Unit for safe birthing. Despite these changes, the hospital's rating didn't improve.
Upon further questioning, it was revealed that the management team at Evanston was actually unaware of which services were affecting its rating the most and the decision for which areas to invest upon was taken based on guesswork and internal discussion only.
Based on the above conversation and your domain knowledge on provider analytics and Hospital compare, perform a root cause analysis to determine the reasons why Evanston Hospital's profits didn't improve using the 'issue tree framework'. You have to use Coggle to develop the flowchart for the issue tree. You can use the template given here which already has 2 of the main branches mentioned in the tree.
## Part II - Data Understanding and EDA:
Let’s consider one of the possible root causes for Evanston Hospital not being able to improve its rating - the hospital is not aware of the factors that are possibly affecting its rating significantly. Therefore, as a business analyst, you have proposed building a rating prediction model which can be used to determine those factors.
This project is focussed on developing an approach to calculate hospital ratings and using it to identify areas of improvement for certain hospitals. It will also require a thorough understanding of the rating system developed by CMS.
You can read the details of the CMS rating project here.
For developing the model, the data can be downloaded from the hospital compare website.
Note that the above link would contain multiple datasets. You can go through the CMS Rating procedure to understand which datasets are necessary for building the rating prediction model.
Once you have identified the necessary datasets, perform suitable EDA on each of them - clean the data, keep the important columns, remove the unnecessary ones, standardise the data, and combine all of them to a single dataframe. Conduct univariate and bivariate analyses on them to identify patterns and apply suitable feature engineering techniques to make the data ready for the modelling steps. You can also check if there is any skewness in the data and try to mitigate it, as it might cause problems during the model-building phase.
## Part III - Model Building and Evaluation:
Once you have completed the EDA steps, the next step is to start building the rating prediction model. The Machine Learning pipeline consists of the following steps.
Building the rating prediction model. The Machine Learning pipeline consists of the following steps:
Train/Test Split: By now, you are familiar with the train/test split, which you can perform to evaluate the performance of your models with unseen data. You can use the stratified k-fold cross-validation method here. You need to choose an appropriate k value so that the minority class is correctly represented in the test folds.
Model-Building/Hyperparameter Tuning: This is the final step in which you can try out different models and fine-tune their hyperparameters until you get the desired level of performance on the given dataset. Start with a baseline model(ideally a linear model) that will act as a proof of concept and then improve upon it by increasing its complexity. 
Model Evaluation: Evaluate the models using appropriate evaluation metrics. Choose an appropriate evaluation metric which reflects this business goal.
Provider Analysis: For Evanston Hospital, identify the key features which they need to work upon to improve their ratings. You can use an additional python library - eli5 to perform this analysis. 
## Part IV: Recommendations
Choose the best results for your rating prediction model and create a PowerPoint presentation along with a video explaining the analysis and results to the relevant business stakeholders.
The audience should be able to intuitively understand the model/analysis that you have built/performed and the final recommendations that you're suggesting to the hospital.
